---
layout: post
title: Breaking out of the PMC
---

I took my husband on a boat tour of a quaint lake town when we visited my hometown last summer. As the ferry chugged through the waters, the boat operator told us about the lake. After discussing the history of the town and geological fun facts, the boat operator would point out the mantions dotting the northern end of the lake and tell us about their owners. One owned and operated a junk metal recycling business. Another earned his fortune on collectable stamp price arbitrage. There was the owner of a business that won a government contract to produce Q-Tips as a part of the government’s COVID response, and the owner of an SEO marketing agency. 

Further south on the lake lived a member of Metallica. The boat didn’t venture that far. 

It struck me just how banal these companies were that earned these men (it seemed to always be men) their wealth. There were no investors, unless you count the stamp price arbitrage guy. Doctors and lawyers were absent. No one was a VP or COO or CFO of a large corporation: it was all business owners. While they presumably grew social capital after they gained their wealth, the job itself probably did not come with prestige. Scrap metal recycling is not the type of job your parents want you to go after. 

When I talk to my husband about our future goals, I keep it simple: I aspire to be landed gentry. I suppose it’s the Jane Austen reader in me. It seems like the ideal scenario: an ownership stake in a self-sustaining asset, where daily management can largely be allocated to others, allowing you time and energy to focus on your interests. The British had their sprawling country estates; a company and a lake house would be good enough for me, I think. 

Right now I count myself as a member of the professional managerial class, or PMC. A card carrying MBA, I work at a startup funded by prestige VC firms, where I get paid a salary and I am issued stock options that I can choose to exercise. I am employed on an at will contract, and I have no say, beyond the scope of my day to day role, on company decisions that affect the value of the underlying stock. I try as best I can to think about daily operations as if I am an owner because it interests me, but I’m not really one at the end of the day. 

This is a comfortable PMC lifestyle. But it’s no means to get wealthy. It’s a way to stay in a state of striving: living in high cost of living cities on the coasts, competing for positions against other similarly well-heeled MBAs.

To be landed gentry, you have to break out of the PMC. To break out of the PMC, you have to own something, and grow it and reinvest it for quite some time. It’s a process to optimize over decades and generations, not one that will net you a comfortable salary by raising VC money and a windfall from an exit event five years later. It’s less prestigious to be landed gentry than to be a titled member of the aristocracy; other careers will always seem the more enticing, sexier path to follow. 

Here’s to breaking the pattern. 
